Bean profiles were implemented later in the Spring code
base to help you adapt to environments.
They allow you to set up specific code that gets ran
only in a specific environment, so we can swap out configurations at runtime.
It's a great way for us to have effective runtime configurations.
I'll be honest, the first time that I saw these,
I wasn't really a fan of them because I don't like it when my
configuration changes in environments and then it's not the same.
I've always worked on my code base to not have that be the case.
But when dealing with sensitive data or that type of
information that I'm going to go pull something from a dev or
sample database until I get into production,
it's a great way for me to set up a profile for that.
Let's see how we want to implement this inside of our application.
Adding bean profiles is actually quite easy to do inside of our application.
I'm going to go ahead and open up one of our bean definitions.
We'll start with the speakerRepository.
I want to go right above the class declaration and
add in an @Profile annotation.
And I'm going to give this a keyword of dev, and that's a word that we chose.
It's not a keyword specific to Spring.
This can be anything you want.
It could be staging_42.
It's whatever we've chose.
We'll do @Profile dev for the HibernateSpeakerRepositoryImpl.
And we'll open up our SpeakerServiceImpl and do the same thing here.
So we'll say @Profile, and, again, we're going to choose dev here as well.
And we want to go inside of our application and edit the run configuration.
This is how we tell it to choose which profile we're going to run.
So in the VM options, I want to do a - Dspring.profiles .active =dev.
Now,
don't make the mistake of putting it in the environment
variables or in one of the other fields.
It will not work.
It needs to be a VM option.
Let's click Apply and hit OK.
And now when we run our application, it will run with a specific profile.
You'll see that everything runs.
Well, great.
What happens if it didn't have a profile for that?
Well, that bean wouldn't be available.
So if we change this to prod, and save this,
and run it again,
we'll get a null pointer exception because it can't find that bean.
So you see how those beans will allow specific code to only be
ran in specific environmental configurations.
I'm going to change this back to dev.
And I want to show you that this HibernateSpeakerRepository really is
a good example of where you'd want this profile.
We have hard-coded values in here that eventually
we want to pull from a database, but we don't have a database set up.
So, I want to set this up to only run in dev.
It's kind of like a to do statement if you use that in your IDE or in
some of the other tools that are out there saying,
hey, I want to come back and fix this.
Well, by marking this as dev,
it's not going to get ran or accidentally deployed into production where you break things.